Hello, my name is Stacey Langford.
Welcome to build a full website around
a blog using WordPress. By the end of this project, you 
will create a full website that is attractive and user
friendly.
Using a free content management system, WordPress, you will
learn how to develop using front and backend development
while implementing themes and plug ins.
Using the web creation tool, you'll have a virtual space
to showcase your business with customers who want
to stay connected.
Here's a peek at the finished website.
Let's get started.
You should navigate to www dot wordpress dot com.
You should already have a WordPress account.
If you do not pause the video now to create and set up your
WordPress account. You should navigate to your website
dashboard.
In order to begin setting up your website, we're going
to create a brand new website in WordPress.
The new website is going to be about classic bicycles.
It will include information related to classic or vintage
bicycles.
In order to do this, click on the My site button in the upper
left corner of the page, using the navigation tools
on the left pane.
Look to the very bottom for the link that shows a plus sign
inside a circle and and says add a new site, Click on the link.
You'll be taken to a new page, prompting you to create
a brand new site or add an existing site
using a plug in.
We want to create a brand new site.
Click on that pink start now button under the WordPress logo.
Since we want to create a free site at this point, click
on the link that says, Start with a free site.
You will need to type the domain you wish to create
in the search box for this lesson.
Choose generic keywords to search.
You can type keywords that go along with the theme
of the website Classic Bicycles.
Then, choose the generic domain name that is free.
It is the top option on the list
under the paid suggestions. Remember that you can always
change it later if you wish.
If you run into an issue, noting that you must have an active
token when creating your brand new website, this is a system
glitch.
Clear your cache and cookies or open a different Web browser
and log into your website again. Once you have created your
free website, you will be taken directly to the developer
home page for the new website.
Make sure that you are indeed on the home page for your new
website
by looking at the upper left corner of the page. You'll see
the site title and the new URL immediately below it.
Let's get the home page of the site set up.
We can do this by following the checklist titled site set up
list. We want to give the site a name.
Let's go ahead and click on the button that says, name your
site. Click in the box that says Site title and type.
Learn to create a website or you go ahead, and title
your site Classic bicycles or For the Love of Bikes, which
will go with the theme of the page.
Let's go ahead and use for the love of bikes.
If you do use learn to create a website, this will help
me know that this was the Web site you built to begin with.
We want to add the text for the site tagline.
So click on site tagline and type in the phrase you
can't buy happiness, but you can buy a bike and that's
pretty close.
Click save settings to change your settings or to save your
changes.
Scroll down to change the site time zone for your location.
I'm going to leave the default setting for site timezone,
but if you click on the box, then you can change your time
zone. We'll leave ours, this one in Chicago.
We will leave the rest of the settings on the default setting
at this time, but take note of the following tools.
The custom address.
You can add a custom address later, but this is where you go
to change your domain to one that is more suitable
for the website.
Do not press the launch site button at this time.
We will launch our site later.
Once the content has been created, the footer credit.
can be changed once you purchase your own domain.
And if in the future you need to delete content or delete
your site permanently, you can use this menu.
It falls under the settings link in the navigation
on the left side of the page.
Let's go back to the top and click on the save settings
Button.
Let's go ahead and return to the site
Set up list. Click come on the my home link in the navigation
on the left side of the page.
You should see the checklist again.
It may have already been populated for you.
Click on the Update Home page button.
The Home page is the first page of Web site visitors will see
when they navigate to your website, so we want to make a good
impression.
The home page set up is the last change or adjustment that
is made.
The next two items in the set up list  prompt us
to launch our website and get the WordPress app.
We will launch our website once we're finished building it.
The WordPress app allows for site maintenance and the ability
to watch site analytics while you are away from your
computer.
You may choose to do this later. If you need more time
to complete the first three items on the site checklist
and download the WordPress app,
Pause the video now.
In this task, we completed the first three items of the site
checklist.
In the next task, we will finish the site set up checklist
by updating and editing the homepage.